Skip to main content
Trips
Booking Engine
Commissions
Groups
Clients
Training / Resources
Vendors
Promotions
My Site
Account
Skip to main content
← Back to Training
Cruise Brothers Group Policy
Article
Cruise Brothers
Updated 1 week ago

Cruise Brothers Group Policy - Updated March 10, 2026

This file details the Cruise Brothers group policies and procedures.
When working with groups, please reference this document. Updated March 10, 2026

Click to Download the Group Policy: 📄 POLICY.GROUPS POLICY.pdf



 

Groups Policy
Revised March 10, 2026

        

Cruise Brothers opens and maintains many speculative groups along with Travel Leaders (TLN), in order to offer our agents an advantage, such as amenities or price advantages. In addition to Cruise Brothers groups, agents may request that we open, on their behalf, affinity groups. While these affinity groups are to be managed by agents, these groups need to also follow our group procedures through proper coordination and communication through your Team Leader.  Cruise Brothers reserves the right to move individual Bookings that were booked outside Cruise Brothers groups into Cruise Brothers or Travel Leaders Group Space.

 

 

1. Administration of Affinity Agent Groups

 

a)      Requesting a Group: please send an email with all the pertinent information needed to open up a new group: Cruise line, ship, sailing date, categories, amenity selection, and assignment/payment of TC’s. Email all this information to your Team Leader. Team Leader may request a group profile sheet be filled out prior to opening the group.

 

b)     Creating a Group: The request and agent plan will be reviewed to ensure it fits with the guidelines of our company policy. The Group Department or Team Leader will secure the requested group space with the cruise line if available. Verification will be sent back to the Team Leader, then agent, when the group space has been secured. Team Leaders will enter the group in CBAT, agent will complete form on CBAT to make the group private in our booking tool. or another agent may book into your group on our booking engine.  The agent will be responsible for maintaining the group with the cruise line, including inventory changes, deposit requirements and marketing. Agents may open the group on their own only if approved by their Team Leader, but must have the agent’s name and “private” included. Full deposit is required for all reservations in groups as indicated by cruise line. Gross payments must be made. If a PIN or password has been added, this also must be communicated to your team leader, team leader to group dept. If an agent opens a group and does not sell any inventory within 90 days, Cruise Brothers reserves the right to convert the group to a CB House group or cancel it at the cruise line without notice.

 c)      Finalizing Group and Reservations: The agent should begin finalizing each group 150 to 100 days prior to the sail date and team leader should be available to assist with maintenance if needed. Just as with any individual booking, agents are responsible that final payments from customers are due to the Cruise Brothers no later than 100 - 135 days before the sailing date, depending on the cruise line.

 

d)     Transferring a Group: If it looks like the group may not sell enough cabins to get to the TC level, the Group Department will advise the team leader to let agent know that CB will open the inventory for sale. Other agents may use the available inventory; other FIT’s can be moved into the group and will be considered a house group. (note: inventory for PCL, HAL, CUN is subject to company use due to their reservation systems).

 e)      Group Reconciliation: 30-45 days prior to sailing date, the group department will reconcile the financials of the group, this ensures all clients are paid in full and all other amounts are in order. If information is not in line with the cruise line, this will be communicated to the team leader to work with the agent to resolve the differences.

 

 

2. Non-Affinity (House) Groups

 

a)      Selling Existing Inventory: Whenever possible, agents are encouraged to sell cruises on sailings where speculative house groups or Travel Leaders groups exist. Princess, Holland, and Cunard will automatically put FIT into groups if we already have a group on that date. For other cruise lines, it is the responsibility of the agent to have the cruise line move the FIT booking into the group. Agents are not allowed to hold reservations in a group. Full deposit must be made to secure the group reservation. This applies to all Cruise Brothers and TLN group inventory.

 

b)      Creating a group from sold reservations: When several FIT reservations on one sailing exist, the Group Department may attempt to create a new group. If so, they will move the FIT reservations into the new group themselves. If for some reason, the agent does not believe a reservation should become part of a future group, please note this in the comments section of your reservation in CB Agent Tools, Trip Notes.

 

c)       Finalizing Group and Reservations: The Group Coordinator will begin finalizing each group 100-135 days prior to the sail date. Just as with any individual booking, agents are responsible that final payments from customers are due to the Cruise Brothers no later than 100-135 days before the sailing date, depending on cruise line.

 

d)      Tour Conductors and Bonus Commission: TC’s will not be paid on any group unless the request is made by the agent to Team Leader by the sailing date, whether it is for agent or client. The email must state if the TC is for the agent or client. In this case TC will be paid to either the agent or client within 90 days after sailing has returned. The Group Department will gather information from the Team Leader, verify the information with the cruise line, and send to the Accounting Department to process for payment when Cruise Brothers receives the Tour Conductor credit from the cruise line.

 

Agents must not apply any TC to a booking directly with the cruise line. 
It must be done through your team leader and our group department. 




3. Tour Conductors (TC’s) and Bonus Commissions

 

a)      Eligibility: Tour Conductor credit is a payment that is received when a group includes at least 8 cabins. For most private agent affinity groups, agents or customers are eligible to receive a net TC for every 8 cabins that they book themselves direct into their own private group. Agent, if sailing (escorting), will receive 100% of the net TC after sailing (unless given to client). Agents, not sailing, will receive their commission split paid after the sailing. You must notify your Team Leader, who in turn notifies our group department that you are working on a private group as written above. Cruise Brothers has the right to decline the TC to the agent.  

 

b)      Calculation of TC: Please note that the agency is not commissioned on TC’s. We receive a “net” amount, which is one person’s cruise fare, not including port, tax, fuel, and other surcharges. In other words, the cruise line views the TC as a credit to the group and takes back the commission previously paid. For example, if a TC is earned from category C, which sold at $800, we will receive that amount less the commission (usually 16%) originally paid, or $672 net. This $672 net amount is either the amount that either the customer would receive, or the base amount used to calculate what the agent would receive based on their commission percentage.

 

c)       Bonus Commission: In some cases, for select types of groups, points may be used to choose a bonus commission to be applied to each reservation. If the group has 8 or more cabins, the cruise line will consider the bonus commission as earned. All agents, whether they sell 8 cabins or not, but as long the overall group earns the bonus commission, will receive their commission percentage on the bonus commission on their personal affinity groups.

 

d)      Payment of TC’s and Bonus Commissions: At times, an agent may escort a group. Agents need to inform their Team Leader in advance of group creation of the request to escort. The agent is still required to make full payment on their reservation. They have earned their TC only after the group has sailed and the TC is received from the cruise line. Prematurely crediting TC’s to reservations could result in reversals and other problems and are only allowed though special approval from the Team Leader. (reference 1-A above)



e)       Opening a private group does not entitle you to the TC.  To qualify for the TC you must sell all of the cabins required to earn the TC.  If it takes 8 cabins to earn a TC and you sell only 7 cabins and Cruise brothers moves an additional cabin into your group you do not earn any portion of the TC





Download Attachment
Related
CB CLIA Policy & Requirements
Travefy Forms and CRM
Register for Travel Agent Portals
CBAT: Homepage/Dashboard Review
CBAT: Training & Resources Center Review
CBAT: Vendor Page Review
CBAT: Groups Advantage Review
Booking Engine Quiz: Complete for Access

Was this content helpful?

Yes
No